The memorandum states that late-night news program has decreased time for local news and weather in favor of increased time for national news. It mentions viewer's complaints, the dwindling advertising contracts and claims that restoring the time to weather and local news could alleviate its problems. However, a number of pertinent assumptions and pieces of evidence need to be called into question before a justifiable solution can be reached.

The memorandum states "complaints" from the viewers about the station's converage of weather and local news. It does not clearly state, however, the exact nature and details of these complaints and appears to hastily conclude that the complaints are regarding the decreased time for such coverage. It could be possible that the weather news being reported is inaccurate; the local news is could unfaithful and is relegating to baseless propaganda. From practical experience, it takes minimal time to report the weather forecast. Moreover, since by definition local news is localized to a small area, there is not much to report and any important incidences could be tersely stated as facts without the need for exaggeration. Thus, important local news and weather information can be conveyed without compromising the time for national news. 

It is a far-fetched conclusion that the advertising attitudes of local businesses is related to the local news and weather coverage. The former is completely unrelated to the latter. Perhaps the advertising rates and policies are untenable for local businesses. It could also be the case that advertisements are simply not professional and are unable to attract new potential customers from the television viewership. The television station needs to get in touch with the heads of local businesses and determine the actual cause for the termination of contracts. After a thorough analysis has been made, remedies should be taken.

The remedy mentioned in the memorandum is to restore the time given to weather and local news. However, this might be counterproductive in reality. It needs to be answered as to what is the fundamental reason that late night viewership is decreasing, if it is decreasing at all. Note that the memorandum only states "viewers' complaints" and not any valid sign of decreased viewership. Perhaps, it is the case that the national news is presented in a bland, prosaic fashion that does not retain the viewer's attention. This, in turn, could be causing decreased viewership of advertisements and thus local businesses are cancelling their late night contracts. Moreover, the order in which national and local news is presented in crucial. Perhaps, it is the case that the local news is televized after the national news, in which case bored viewers have no incentive to continue watching, and hence miss out on viewing the advertisements. If the order is switched, relevant information is given to the viewers and they may choose to watch the national news, which is not so relevant, later on. 

Thus, the proposed solution in the memorandum must be put on hold in light of the above arguments. There is simply not enough evidence to implement a solution that would have a certain outcome. Any hasty decisions might effectively be counterproductive.