The curriculum of school education has been designed keeping the general populace in mind. Its primary role is to provide students with sufficient knowledge, skills, and the know-how to be able to choose any career path that they wish to do so upon graduation. In light of such a generalist thinking attitude, I believe that all students must study the same national curriculum until they enter college.

A strong reason to push for a uniform national curriculum is that students do not have substantial life experience to make a decision about their lives until they enter adulthood. Children are brought up under the protection of their parents, society and do not have enough wisdom to make a honorable choice for themselves. Thus, having a national curriculum allows the entire student population to enter into the mainstream, after which students can choose to specialize. Moreover, it provides the scope to develop a general set of skill-sets that would be applicable to any career path that a student might devote themselves to after graduating from school. If each school were to follow its own curriculum, it causes difficulty for college admission boards to make a fair judgement. Students for certain schools may continue to be unduly disadvantaged, and others may be continually benefited. 

On the contrary, it might be argued that a national curriculum delays the development of a specialized skillset that is useful in trade. Instead of having a holistic education, students could be taught specific skills that could make them job-ready early on. However, such premature specialization can have uninteded consequences. Consider for example a student with an intense passion for music. She might decide to develop her musical skills enough to join a band/studio right after school. In the process, she might be foregoing essential knowledge in the languages, sciences, arts, and other skills of pertinent use in the modern economy, such as mathematics and computer programming. She is too young to know that the music industry is also infamous for job instability, low pay and is rife with dishonest, greedy capitalists. Despite her fervid passion, she may unknowingly be guaraneteeing her own downfall out of ignorance. After being in such a hostile environment for a few years, she might give up on music altogether and ultimately regress to a worse position than she was before graduating from school. The situation presented here may seem overly dystopian, but these true life stories are barely talked about. Hence, the negatives of early specialization can far outweigh the positives.

Finally, a national curriculum establishes a milieu against which a wide student community is built and networking opportunities are presented. If each student chooses to follow their own personal agenda, students across the country would be fragmented without any cohesion. It would be difficult for any one person to seek help as they are alone in their own path. However, if all students follow the same curriculum, there are numerous avenues for seeking help and support. Discussing subjects with one's peers is always helpful and the benefits group teaching-learning cannot be overstated. Countries with a uniform curriculum have informal systems of after-school tuition where students convene after school hours. This allows for the seamless formation of friendships, connections and a network that could last a lifetime. Otherwise, the onus of sustaining a community for a student falls on their parents, who in the modern world, do not have much time to give to their children let alone take the pains to secure their social life. Moreover, students need a community for their emotional maturity and development and a national curriculum indirectly sets in motion the formation of such cohesive communities across the country.

Hence, a strong case has been presented for the development of a national curriculum. It may hinder the development of an exceptionally talented few, who are bound to succeed anyway in a niche career path. However, as a whole, a national curriculum is meant for an overall upliftment of society.
